README.md, before:

# MERN
MERN Stack Starter App (Mongo, Express, React, Node)

## What is this repository?
This is a starer application for the simple, yet fully working application with:
* Authentication (Login and Signup)
* Database operations (adding new user, getting user's profile information)
* Frontend and Backend working together, as a separate applications
* Basic tests for Backend endpoints and Frontend components

## Run the project using Kubernetes
1. Clone the repository.
2. Make sure you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed on your machine alongside with [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/). 
> Tip: If you are on a Windows Machine, you can download Docker Desktop Tool which allows you to install Kubernetes as well.
3. Open the repository in the file explorer, go to `/backend`, copy `.env.template` file and paste it in the same directory with the `.env` name. Do the same for the `/frontend` folder.
4. Open Terminal, and navigate to this folder.
5. Build Docker images for the Backend and Frontend:
```
cd backend
docker build . -t mern-backend:1.0
cd ../frontend
docker build . -t mern-frontend:1.0
```
6. Start up Frontend, Backend and MongoDB by running the following set of commands (make sure to execute them from the root folder):
```
kubectl apply -f database

kubectl apply -f "backend/backend.deployment.yml"
kubectl apply -f "backend/backend.service.yml"

kubectl apply -f "frontend/frontend.deployment.yml"
kubectl apply -f "frontend/frontend.service.yml"
```

This will deploy MongoDB, Backend, Frontend and create services exposing IP addresses with Load Balancers.
* To view the Frontend application, type the following URL in your browser: [localhost:3000](localhost:3000). Backend would be run on `localhost:3002`.
* To view status of your pods, run: 
```
kubectl get pods
```
* To access logs of a specific pod, run (for example for the backend): 
```
kubectl logs deployments/mern-backend
```
* To delete deployment and service (for example for backend), run:
```
kubectl delete deployment/backend-app
kubectl delete services/backend-app
```
> Remember to delete all your deployments after you'll no longer want to use the app. To view if any remaining pods or services are running, type: `kubectl get pods` and `kubectl get services`.


## Run the project using docker-compose
1. Clone the repository.
2. Make sure you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed on your machine.
3. Open the repository in the file explorer, go to `/backend`, copy `.env.template` file and paste it in the same directory with the `.env` name. Do the same for the `/frontend` folder.
4. Open Terminal, and navigate to this folder.
5. Build Docker images for the Backend and Frontend:
```
cd backend
docker build . -t mern-backend:1.0
cd ../frontend
docker build . -t mern-frontend:1.0
```
6. Run `docker-compose up`. This will start the application by spinning up Docker images of the Frontend and Backend applications alongside with MongoDB image.

* To view the Frontend application, type the following URL in your browser: [localhost:3000](localhost:3000). Backend would be run on `localhost:3002`.
* To stop the application, run 
```
docker-compose down
```

## Run a single application
Just navigate to the [Frontend](frontend/README.md) or [Backend](backend/README.md) folders, where you can find detailed instructions on how to run applications separately.

> Note, that you are able to run the whole project by using Docker, as described in the above section, or by manually running Frontend and Backend applications.

Commit message:

Add Helm deployments
Add Helm deployments for database, backend and frontend

README.md, after:

# MERN
MERN Stack Starter App (Mongo, Express, React, Node)

## What is this repository?
This is a starer application for the simple, yet fully working application with:
* Authentication (Login and Signup)
* Database operations (adding new user, getting user's profile information)
* Frontend and Backend working together, as a separate applications
* Basic tests for Backend endpoints and Frontend components
* Docker deployment using docker-compose file
* Kubernetes deployment using yaml files

## Run the project using Kubernetes
1. Clone the repository.
2. Make sure you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed on your machine alongside with [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/). 
> Tip: If you are on a Windows Machine, you can download Docker Desktop Tool which allows you to install Kubernetes as well.
3. Open the repository in the file explorer, go to `/backend`, copy `.env.template` file and paste it in the same directory with the `.env` name. Do the same for the `/frontend` folder.
4. Open Terminal, and navigate to this folder.
5. Build Docker images for the Backend and Frontend:
```
cd backend
docker build . -t mern-backend:1.0
cd ../frontend
docker build . -t mern-frontend:1.0
```
6. Start up Frontend, Backend and MongoDB by running the following set of commands (make sure to execute them from the root folder):
```
kubectl apply -f database

kubectl apply -f "backend/backend.deployment.yml"
kubectl apply -f "backend/backend.service.yml"

kubectl apply -f "frontend/frontend.deployment.yml"
kubectl apply -f "frontend/frontend.service.yml"
```

This will deploy MongoDB, Backend, Frontend and create services exposing IP addresses with Load Balancers.
* To view the Frontend application, type the following URL in your browser: [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). Backend would be run on `localhost:3002`.
* To view status of your pods, run: 
```
kubectl get pods
```
* To access logs of a specific pod, run (for example for the backend): 
```
kubectl logs deployments/mern-backend
```
* To delete deployment and service (for example for backend), run:
```
kubectl delete deployment/backend-app
kubectl delete services/backend-app
```
> Remember to delete all your deployments after you'll no longer want to use the app. To view if any remaining pods or services are running, type: `kubectl get pods` and `kubectl get services`.

## Run the project using Helm
1. Clone the repository.
2. Make sure you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed on your machine alongside with [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) and [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/). 
> **Note:** This configuration was prepared on Windows 10 Machine with `kubectl` version 1.22.3 and [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/) version 1.24.0. Configuration for Linux or macOS environments might be different.

> Tip: If you are on a Windows Machine, you can download Docker Desktop Tool which allows you to install Kubernetes as well.
3. Open the repository in the file explorer, go to `/backend`, copy `.env.template` file and paste it in the same directory with the `.env` name. Do the same for the `/frontend` folder.
4. Open Terminal, and navigate to this folder.
5. Build Docker images for the Backend and Frontend:
```
cd backend
docker build . -t mern-backend:1.0
cd ../frontend
docker build . -t mern-frontend:1.0
```
<!-- 6. Run minikube:
```
minikube start
```
and enable Ingress addon:
```
minikube addons enable ingress
``` -->


## Run the project using docker-compose
1. Clone the repository.
2. Make sure you have [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed on your machine.
3. Open the repository in the file explorer, go to `/backend`, copy `.env.template` file and paste it in the same directory with the `.env` name. Do the same for the `/frontend` folder.
4. Open Terminal, and navigate to this folder.
5. Build Docker images for the Backend and Frontend:
```
cd backend
docker build . -t mern-backend:1.0
cd ../frontend
docker build . -t mern-frontend:1.0
```
6. Run `docker-compose up`. This will start the application by spinning up Docker images of the Frontend and Backend applications alongside with MongoDB image.

* To view the Frontend application, type the following URL in your browser: [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). Backend would be run on `localhost:3002`.
* To stop the application, run 
```
docker-compose down
```

## Run a single application
Just navigate to the [Frontend](frontend/README.md) or [Backend](backend/README.md) folders, where you can find detailed instructions on how to run applications separately.

> Note, that you are able to run the whole project by using Docker, as described in the above section, or by manually running Frontend and Backend applications.
